feat: add article user-removal-api-keys-impact (#20)
deepgram/content: articles/en/community/user-removal-api-keys-impact-1302075420622983179.md

# Impact of User Removal on API Keys in Deepgram Projects

When working with Deepgram's API in a collaborative environment, it's crucial to understand how the removal of a user from a project affects associated API keys. This documentation outlines this specific scenario to ensure seamless integration and minimal disruption in production environments.

### Understanding API Key Ownership

API keys in Deepgram are tied to the specific user account that created them. They are created within the context of a specific project and are thus bound by the permissions and existence of that user within that project.

> - **Key Creator Responsibilities**: The user who creates an API key is considered the owner of that key. The key can only be used by the creator within the specific project it was created.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Key Creator Responsibilities**: The user who creates an API key is considered the owner of that key. The key can only be used within the specific project it was created, and only while the creator has access to the project.
```

### Steps to Mitigate Impact

1. **Regular Review**: Periodically review the ownership and permissions of API keys to ensure they align with the current project member list.

2. **Establish Clear Guidelines**: Have clear documentation and processes for managing API keys and assigning them to stable service accounts where possible.

3. **Monitoring and Alerts**: Implement monitoring that alerts you when an API key used in production is revoked or when a team member's access is updated, allowing for quick remediation.

4. **Collaboration Tools**: Use collaboration tools or notes to keep track of key ownership and project member changes to minimize unanticipated disruptions.

### Conclusion

Understanding the relationship between user accounts and API keys is crucial to maintaining uninterrupted service while utilizing Deepgram's powerful APIs. By planning ahead and regularly auditing key ownership, project teams can prevent unnecessary downtime and ensure compliance with best security practices.

### References

> - [Deepgram API Documentation](https://developers.deepgram.com/docs)
> - [GitHub Discussions on Deepgram](https://github.com/orgs/deepgram/discussions)
> - [Deepgram Community Platform](https://community.deepgram.com)
> - [Asana Task for Documentation Update](https://app.asana.com/0/1203960061328510/1207598434458847)

Author: ```suggestion
- [Deepgram API Documentation](https://developers.deepgram.com/docs/managing-projects#manage-api-keys)
```
